'\" t
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Noble Factor. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH LORE-UPGRADE 1 "2026-01-11" "Lore 0.1" "Lore Manual"
.SH NAME
lore-upgrade \- Upgrade previously deployed packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fBlore upgrade\fR @<receipt> [\-\-target @<manifest>]
\fBlore upgrade\fR <package>...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Upgrade packages that were previously deployed with \fBlore-deploy\fR(1).
The upgrade pipeline updates installed software while preserving
configuration and migrating state as needed.
.sp
The upgrade pipeline consists of four phases:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "\fBplan\fR" 4
Assess upgrade compatibility and determine upgrade path.
Check version compatibility, identify breaking changes.
.IP "\fBupgrade\fR" 4
Replace old version with new version via native package manager or download.
.IP "\fBmigrate\fR" 4
Transfer state from old version to new.
Export configuration, transform data formats, import to new version.
.IP "\fBverify\fR" 4
Confirm the upgrade succeeded.
Run verification, validate migrated data, generate new receipt.
.RE
.sp
On success, a new pipeline-receipt is generated reflecting the
upgraded state.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Input Options"
.TP
\fB@\fR<receipt>
Use an existing pipeline-receipt as the baseline.
Upgrades packages listed in the receipt.
.TP
\fB\-\-target\fR @<manifest>
Specify target versions via a manifest.
If omitted, upgrades to latest available versions.
.TP
<package>
Upgrade specific packages by name.
Uses the most recent receipt for each package.
.SS "Behavior Options"
.TP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Show what would be upgraded without making changes.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-migrate\fR
Skip the migrate phase.
Use with caution; configuration may not be preserved.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Upgrade even if already at target version.
.SH EXAMPLES
Upgrade all packages from a receipt:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore upgrade @workstation.receipt
.fi
.RE
.sp
Upgrade to specific versions:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore upgrade @workstation.receipt \-\-target @latest.manifest
.fi
.RE
.sp
Upgrade specific packages:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore upgrade docker kubectl
.fi
.RE
.sp
Dry run to see what would change:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore \-\-dry\-run upgrade @workstation.receipt
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBlore\fR(1),
\fBlore-deploy\fR(1),
\fBlore-decommission\fR(1),
\fBlore-reconcile\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble <david@thenobles.us>
