'\" t
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Noble Factor. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH LORE 1 "2026-01-11" "Lore 0.1" "Lore Manual"
.SH NAME
lore \- the tribal knowledge package deployer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fBlore\fR [\-v | \-\-version] [\-h | \-\-help]
\fBlore\fR <command> [<args>]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Lore is a cross-platform package deployment tool that captures tribal
knowledge about installing software.
It delegates to native package managers when possible and provides
custom deployment scripts when necessary.
.sp
Lore exists because "install this package" is rarely the whole story.
Docker requires adding vendor repositories, removing conflicting packages,
and installing five separate components.
Pandoc needs a PDF engine, which needs LaTeX, which needs tlmgr to install
packages that aren't documented anywhere.
.sp
Lore captures this knowledge once and shares it forever.
What took someone hours to figure out, you get in minutes.
Share within your team, your organization, or the community at large.
The registry grows with every contribution.
.sp
See \fBloretutorial\fR(7) to get started, then see \fBloreeveryday\fR(7) for
a useful minimum set of commands.
After you mastered the basic concepts, you can come back to this page
to learn what commands Lore offers.
You can learn more about individual Lore commands with "lore help <command>".
\fBlorecli\fR(7) gives you an overview of the command-line syntax.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Prints the Lore version.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints a synopsis and list of the most commonly used commands.
If a Lore command is named, this option will bring up the manual
page for that command.
.TP
\fB\-\-config\fR=<file>
Use the given configuration file instead of the default
\fI~/.config/lore/config.yaml\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-registry\fR=<path>
Use the given registry path instead of the default.
.TP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Show what would be done without making changes.
This flag is inherited by subcommands.
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
Detailed output for debugging.
.TP
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress non-error output.
.SH "LORE COMMANDS"
We divide Lore into high level ("porcelain") commands and low level
("plumbing") commands.
.SH "HIGH-LEVEL COMMANDS (PORCELAIN)"
.SS "Main Porcelain Commands"
.TP
\fBlore-deploy\fR(1)
Deploy packages to the local system.
This is the primary command for installing software.
.TP
\fBlore-upgrade\fR(1)
Upgrade previously deployed packages to newer versions.
.TP
\fBlore-decommission\fR(1)
Remove packages and clean up their resources.
.TP
\fBlore-reconcile\fR(1)
Compare deployment receipts against actual system state and report drift.
.SS "Ancillary Commands"
.TP
\fBlore-bundle\fR(1)
Create self-extracting deployment bundles for air-gapped environments.
.TP
\fBlore-manifest\fR(1)
Create and manage package lifecycle manifests (package authoring).
.TP
\fBlore-search\fR(1)
Search available packages in the registry.
.TP
\fBlore-list\fR(1)
List deployed packages from pipeline receipts.
.TP
\fBlore-resolve\fR(1)
Show how a package would be installed on this platform.
.TP
\fBlore-update\fR(1)
Synchronize the local registry cache from the central registry.
.SH "CONCEPTS"
.SS "Package-Spec"
A package with optional features and settings.
Specified on the command line:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
docker \-\-with rootless
pandoc \-\-with pdf-latex \-\-with paper=a4
.fi
.RE
.sp
Features (no \fB=\fR) enable capabilities.
Settings (\fB=\fR present) configure behavior.
.SS "Package-Manifest"
A file containing one package-spec per line.
Referenced with the \fB@\fR prefix:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy @workstation.manifest
.fi
.RE
.SS "Pipeline-Receipt"
The output from a pipeline execution.
Contains the exact versions, features, and settings that were deployed.
Receipts can be used as input to subsequent pipelines.
.SS "Package-Lifecycle-Manifest"
A registry entry defining how to deploy, upgrade, and decommission a package.
Contains YAML metadata and Starlark phase scripts.
.SS "Pipelines"
Lore organizes operations into four pipelines:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "\fBdeploy\fR" 4
Install and configure packages for first use.
Phases: prepare \[->] install \[->] provision \[->] verify.
.IP "\fBupgrade\fR" 4
Update deployed packages to newer versions.
.IP "\fBdecommission\fR" 4
Remove packages and clean up resources.
.IP "\fBreconcile\fR" 4
Compare expected state (receipt) against actual system state.
.RE
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.SS "User Configuration"
.TP
\fI~/.config/lore/config.yaml\fR
User-specific settings: preferred shell, default features, registry location.
.SS "Registry"
.TP
\fI~/.local/share/lore/registry/\fR
Local cache of package-lifecycle-manifests synced from central registry.
.SS "State"
.TP
\fI~/.local/state/lore/\fR
Pipeline execution history and receipts.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
\fBLORE_HOME\fR
If set, overrides the default location for lore state and configuration.
.TP
\fBLORE_REGISTRY\fR
If set, specifies the registry URL for synchronization.
.SH EXAMPLES
Deploy packages:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy kubectl gh docker
lore deploy docker \-\-with rootless
lore deploy @team.manifest
.fi
.RE
.sp
Deploy from multiple sources:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy @base.manifest @team.manifest neovim \-\-with lsp
cat packages.txt | lore deploy
.fi
.RE
.sp
Check what would happen without making changes:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore \-\-dry\-run deploy docker \-\-with rootless
.fi
.RE
.sp
Compare deployed state to actual system:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore reconcile @workstation.receipt
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBlore-deploy\fR(1),
\fBlore-upgrade\fR(1),
\fBlore-decommission\fR(1),
\fBlore-reconcile\fR(1),
\fBlore-bundle\fR(1),
\fBlore-manifest\fR(1),
\fBloretutorial\fR(7),
\fBlorecli\fR(7)
.SH NOTES
.SS "Design Principles"
.sp
.IP "\fBCapture and share tribal knowledge\fR" 4
Installation wisdom that would otherwise live in blog posts or
"ask someone who's done it" is encoded once and shared forever \(em
with your team, your organization, or the community at large.
.IP "\fBDeclare what, not how\fR" 4
Specify package names; Lore determines the best installation method
for your platform.
.IP "\fBAugment, don't replace\fR" 4
Lore delegates to native package managers whenever possible.
Custom scripts exist for tools that need special handling.
.IP "\fBPipeline execution\fR" 4
Every deployment follows a predictable pipeline: prepare \[->] install \[->]
provision \[->] verify.
On failure, rollback executes in reverse order.
.IP "\fBNo training required\fR" 4
Package authors look at man pages, recognize Python-like Starlark syntax,
and write.
No DSL to learn; no framework to master.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at \fIhttps://github.com/NobleFactor/devlore/issues\fR
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble <david@thenobles.us>
