'\" t
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Noble Factor. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH LORE-DECOMMISSION 1 "2026-01-11" "Lore 0.1" "Lore Manual"
.SH NAME
lore-decommission \- Remove packages and clean up their resources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fBlore decommission\fR @<receipt>
\fBlore decommission\fR <package>...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Remove packages that were previously deployed with \fBlore-deploy\fR(1).
The decommission pipeline cleanly removes software and all associated
resources, reversing the effects of deployment.
.sp
The decommission pipeline consists of four phases:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "\fBcleanup\fR" 4
Clean up verification artifacts and operational state.
Remove verification outputs, clear caches, delete temporary data.
.IP "\fBdeprovision\fR" 4
Revoke access and remove allocated resources.
Delete config directories, remove service accounts, disconnect integrations.
.IP "\fBuninstall\fR" 4
Remove installed software from the system.
Invoke native package manager uninstall, delete binaries, remove completions.
.IP "\fBrevert\fR" 4
Restore system to prior state.
Release locks, remove temp markers, undo precondition changes.
.RE
.sp
On success, a pipeline-receipt records what was removed.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Input Options"
.TP
\fB@\fR<receipt>
Use an existing pipeline-receipt to identify packages to remove.
Removes all packages listed in the receipt.
.TP
<package>
Remove specific packages by name.
.SS "Behavior Options"
.TP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Show what would be removed without making changes.
.TP
\fB\-\-keep\-config\fR
Preserve configuration files.
Useful when planning to reinstall later.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Remove even if verification indicates the package is still in use.
.SH EXAMPLES
Decommission all packages from a receipt:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore decommission @workstation.receipt
.fi
.RE
.sp
Decommission specific packages:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore decommission docker pandoc
.fi
.RE
.sp
Dry run to see what would be removed:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore \-\-dry\-run decommission @workstation.receipt
.fi
.RE
.sp
Remove software but keep configuration:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore decommission \-\-keep\-config docker
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBlore\fR(1),
\fBlore-deploy\fR(1),
\fBlore-upgrade\fR(1),
\fBlore-reconcile\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble <david@thenobles.us>
