'\" t
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Noble Factor. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH LORE-BUNDLE 1 "2026-01-11" "Lore 0.1" "Lore Manual"
.SH NAME
lore-bundle \- Create self-extracting deployment bundles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fBlore bundle\fR @<manifest> \-\-output <file>
\fBlore bundle\fR <package>... \-\-output <file>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a self-extracting deployment bundle containing lore, the registry,
and all artifacts needed to deploy the specified packages.
Bundles enable deployment in air-gapped environments without network access.
.sp
The bundle includes:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
The lore binary
.IP \(bu 4
Package-lifecycle-manifests for requested packages
.IP \(bu 4
Pre-downloaded artifacts (tarballs, installers, etc.)
.IP \(bu 4
A bootstrap script that extracts and runs deployment
.RE
.sp
Bundles are platform-specific.
The bundle is created for the current platform by default.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Input Options"
.TP
\fB@\fR<manifest>
Include all packages from the manifest in the bundle.
.TP
<package>
Include specific packages in the bundle.
\fB\-\-with\fR flags are supported to include feature-specific artifacts.
.SS "Output Options"
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR=<file>, \fB\-o\fR <file>
Write the bundle to the specified file.
Use \fB.run\fR extension for self-extracting bundles on Unix,
\fB.exe\fR for Windows.
Required.
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR=<format>
Bundle format: \fBself-extracting\fR (default), \fBtar\fR, \fBzip\fR.
.SS "Platform Options"
.TP
\fB\-\-platform\fR=<os>/<arch>
Create bundle for a different platform.
Examples: \fBlinux/amd64\fR, \fBdarwin/arm64\fR, \fBwindows/amd64\fR.
.SS "Content Options"
.TP
\fB\-\-include\-registry\fR
Include the full registry (not just requested packages).
Useful for environments where additional packages may be needed.
.TP
\fB\-\-include\-repo\fR=<path>
Include a git repository in the bundle.
The repository is cloned and included in the bundle's \fBrepos/\fR directory.
Can be specified multiple times to include multiple repositories.
Useful for including project source code or custom tooling.
.TP
\fB\-\-verify\fR
Verify all artifacts after downloading.
.SH "BUNDLE STRUCTURE"
A self-extracting bundle contains:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
bundle.run
\[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] embedded/
    \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] lore                 # lore binary
    \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] registry/            # package-lifecycle-manifests
    \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] docker/
    \[u2502]   \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] pandoc/
    \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] artifacts/           # pre-downloaded files
    \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] docker-24.0.7.tar.gz
    \[u2502]   \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] pandoc-3.1.11.pkg
    \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] repos/               # included repositories
    \[u2502]   \[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] customer-project/
    \[u2502]   \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] my-debug-tools/
    \[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] manifest.yaml        # what to deploy
.fi
.RE
.sp
Repositories are extracted to \fB~/src/\fR by default during deployment.
.SH "EXECUTION"
Self-extracting bundles can be run directly:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
chmod +x team-deploy.run
\&./team-deploy.run deploy
.fi
.RE
.sp
Available bundle commands:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "\fBdeploy\fR" 4
Extract and run \fBlore deploy\fR with bundled artifacts.
.IP "\fBextract\fR" 4
Extract contents to a directory without deploying.
.IP "\fBlist\fR" 4
List packages and artifacts in the bundle.
.IP "\fBverify\fR" 4
Verify bundle integrity (checksums).
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a bundle from a manifest:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore bundle @server.manifest \-\-output server-deploy.run
.fi
.RE
.sp
Create a bundle for specific packages:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore bundle docker \-\-with rootless kubectl \-\-output k8s-tools.run
.fi
.RE
.sp
Create a bundle for a different platform:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore bundle @server.manifest \-\-platform linux/amd64 \-o server-linux.run
.fi
.RE
.sp
Deploy from a bundle on air-gapped system:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
# Transfer bundle via USB or internal network
scp server-deploy.run target:/tmp/

# On target system
chmod +x /tmp/server-deploy.run
/tmp/server-deploy.run deploy
.fi
.RE
.sp
Extract without deploying:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\&./server-deploy.run extract \-\-dir /opt/lore-bundle
.fi
.RE
.sp
Cross-platform debugging bundle with repositories:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore bundle @workstation.receipt \\
    \-\-platform linux/fedora \\
    \-\-include\-repo ~/src/customer\-project \\
    \-\-include\-repo ~/src/my\-debug\-tools \\
    \-\-output debug\-env.run
.fi
.RE
.SH "CROSS-PLATFORM DEBUGGING"
Create a debug environment on an unfamiliar platform using your existing
workstation receipt:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "1." 4
Create bundle from your receipt, targeting the debug platform:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore bundle @workstation.receipt \\
    \-\-platform linux/fedora \\
    \-\-include\-repo ~/src/customer\-project \\
    \-o debug\-env.run
.fi
.RE
.IP "2." 4
Provision a VM and transfer the bundle:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
scp debug\-env.run fedora\-vm:/tmp/
.fi
.RE
.IP "3." 4
Deploy on the target:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
ssh fedora\-vm '/tmp/debug\-env.run deploy'
.fi
.RE
.IP "4." 4
Start debugging:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
ssh fedora\-vm
cd ~/src/customer\-project
# Your tools are here. Same config, different platform.
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
Lore translates your receipt to the target platform (e.g., apt packages
become dnf packages) and bundles platform-appropriate artifacts.
.SH "AIR-GAPPED WORKFLOW"
The bundle command enables deployment in environments without
external network access:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "1." 4
On a connected system, create the bundle:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore bundle @production.manifest \-o production-deploy.run
.fi
.RE
.IP "2." 4
Transfer via approved mechanism (USB, internal network, etc.):
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
scp production-deploy.run air-gapped-host:/tmp/
.fi
.RE
.IP "3." 4
On the air-gapped system, execute:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
/tmp/production-deploy.run deploy
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
The bundle contains everything needed; no network access required
during deployment.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBlore\fR(1),
\fBlore-deploy\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble <david@thenobles.us>
