'\" t
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Noble Factor. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH LORE-RECONCILE 1 "2026-01-11" "Lore 0.1" "Lore Manual"
.SH NAME
lore-reconcile \- Compare expected state against actual system state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fBlore reconcile\fR @<receipt>
\fBlore reconcile\fR @<manifest>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Compare deployment receipts or manifests against the actual state of
the system and report any drift.
This is essential for maintaining system integrity and detecting
unexpected changes.
.sp
The reconcile pipeline consists of two phases:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "\fBcompare\fR" 4
For each package in the receipt or manifest, check:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Is the package installed?
.IP \(bu 4
Is the installed version correct?
.IP \(bu 4
Are all features configured as expected?
.IP \(bu 4
Are configuration files intact?
.RE
.IP "\fBreport\fR" 4
Generate a delta report showing:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Packages missing from the system
.IP \(bu 4
Packages with wrong versions
.IP \(bu 4
Configuration drift
.IP \(bu 4
Unexpected packages (if manifest used)
.RE
.RE
.sp
Reconcile is a read-only operation.
It does not modify the system.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Input Options"
.TP
\fB@\fR<receipt>
Compare against a pipeline-receipt from a previous deployment.
.TP
\fB@\fR<manifest>
Compare against a package-manifest (desired state).
.SS "Output Options"
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR
Output delta report in JSON format for programmatic use.
.TP
\fB\-\-exit\-code\fR
Exit with non-zero status if drift is detected.
Useful for CI/CD pipelines.
.SS "Behavior Options"
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
Show detailed comparison for each package.
.TP
\fB\-\-include\-config\fR
Check configuration file contents, not just presence.
.SH "DELTA REPORT"
The reconcile command produces a delta report:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
Reconciling against workstation.receipt...

Package         Expected    Actual      Status
-------         --------    ------      ------
docker          24.0.7      24.0.7      OK
kubectl         1.28.0      1.29.1      VERSION_DRIFT
pandoc          3.1.11      -           MISSING
gh              2.40.0      2.40.0      OK

Features:
  docker.rootless     enabled     disabled    DRIFT
  pandoc.pdf-latex    enabled     -           MISSING

Summary: 2 packages OK, 1 version drift, 1 missing
         1 feature drift, 1 feature missing
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Reconcile against a deployment receipt:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore reconcile @workstation.receipt
.fi
.RE
.sp
Reconcile against a manifest (desired state):
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore reconcile @team.manifest
.fi
.RE
.sp
Check in CI pipeline:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore reconcile \-\-exit\-code @production.receipt
.fi
.RE
.sp
Get JSON output for automation:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore reconcile \-\-json @workstation.receipt | jq '.drift'
.fi
.RE
.SH "USE CASES"
.SS "Drift Detection"
Run \fBlore reconcile\fR periodically to detect when system state
diverges from expected state:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Packages manually upgraded or removed
.IP \(bu 4
Configuration files modified
.IP \(bu 4
Features enabled/disabled outside of lore
.RE
.SS "Compliance Verification"
In regulated environments, use reconcile to verify systems match
approved configurations:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore reconcile \-\-exit\-code @approved-baseline.receipt
.fi
.RE
.SS "Migration Planning"
Before upgrading, reconcile to understand current state:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore reconcile @current.receipt
lore upgrade @current.receipt \-\-target @new.manifest
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBlore\fR(1),
\fBlore-deploy\fR(1),
\fBlore-upgrade\fR(1),
\fBlore-decommission\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble <david@thenobles.us>
