'\" t
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Noble Factor. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH LORE-DEPLOY 1 "2026-01-11" "Lore 0.1" "Lore Manual"
.SH NAME
lore-deploy \- Deploy packages to the local system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fBlore deploy\fR [@<manifest>]... [<package> [\-\-with <feature|setting=value>]...]...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Deploy one or more packages by running the deploy pipeline for each.
The deploy pipeline consists of four phases:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "\fBprepare\fR" 4
Validate preconditions, remove conflicting packages, set up repositories.
.IP "\fBinstall\fR" 4
Install packages via native package manager or custom download.
.IP "\fBprovision\fR" 4
Configure shell completions, environment modules, service integration.
.IP "\fBverify\fR" 4
Run tests, confirm success, generate pipeline-receipt.
.RE
.sp
If any phase fails, Lore rolls back completed phases in reverse order.
On success, a \fBpipeline-receipt\fR is generated capturing exactly
what was deployed.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Input Options"
.TP
\fB@\fR<manifest>
Read package-specs from a manifest file.
One package-spec per line, comments start with \fB#\fR.
Multiple manifests can be specified.
.TP
<package>
Deploy a single package by name.
.TP
\fB\-\-with\fR <feature>
Enable a feature for the preceding package.
Features are boolean capabilities defined in the package-lifecycle-manifest.
.TP
\fB\-\-with\fR <setting>=<value>
Set a configuration value for the preceding package.
Settings are key-value pairs that modify deployment behavior.
.SS "Output Options"
.TP
\fB\-\-receipt\fR=<file>
Write pipeline-receipt to the specified file instead of the default location.
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR
Output results in JSON format.
.SS "Behavior Options"
.TP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Show what would be done without making changes.
.TP
\fB\-\-continue\-on\-error\fR
Continue deploying remaining packages if one fails.
Default is to stop at first failure.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-verify\fR
Skip the verify phase.
Use with caution; receipts will be incomplete.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Redeploy packages even if already installed.
.SH "PACKAGE-SPEC SYNTAX"
A package-spec consists of a package name followed by optional
\fB\-\-with\fR flags:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
<package> [\-\-with <feature|setting=value>]...
.fi
.RE
.sp
The \fB\-\-with\fR flag distinguishes features from settings by the
presence of \fB=\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "\fB\-\-with rootless\fR" 4
Enable the \fBrootless\fR feature (no \fB=\fR).
.IP "\fB\-\-with paper=a4\fR" 4
Set the \fBpaper\fR setting to \fBa4\fR (\fB=\fR present).
.RE
.sp
When multiple packages are specified on the command line, each
\fB\-\-with\fR binds to the immediately preceding package:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy docker \-\-with rootless pandoc \-\-with pdf-latex kubectl
          # ^^^^^^               ^^^^^^               ^^^^^^^
          # rootless             pdf-latex            (no features)
.fi
.RE
.SH "MANIFEST FORMAT"
Manifest files contain one package-spec per line:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
# workstation.manifest
# Comments start with #

# Core CLI tools
jq
gh
ripgrep

# Cloud/DevOps
kubectl
docker \-\-with rootless
aws-cli \-\-with completions

# Document tools
pandoc \-\-with pdf-latex \-\-with paper=a4
.fi
.RE
.SH "PIPELINE PHASES"
.SS "prepare"
Validates that the deployment can proceed:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Check platform compatibility
.IP \(bu 4
Remove conflicting packages
.IP \(bu 4
Add vendor package repositories
.IP \(bu 4
Verify disk space and permissions
.RE
.sp
On failure, rollback does nothing (no changes made).
.SS "install"
Acquires and installs the software:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Invoke native package manager (\fBbrew\fR, \fBapt\fR, \fBwinget\fR, etc.)
.IP \(bu 4
Download and extract binaries for unsupported platforms
.IP \(bu 4
Install feature-specific dependencies
.RE
.sp
On failure, rollback runs \fBuninstall\fR to remove partial installation.
.SS "provision"
Configures the installed software:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Generate shell completions (bash, zsh, fish)
.IP \(bu 4
Create environment modules in \fI~/.config/sh/env.d/\fR
.IP \(bu 4
Configure service integration (systemd, launchd)
.IP \(bu 4
Apply platform-specific fixups
.RE
.sp
On failure, rollback runs \fBdeprovision\fR to remove configuration.
.SS "verify"
Confirms the deployment succeeded:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Run smoke tests (e.g., \fBdocker run hello-world\fR)
.IP \(bu 4
Validate installed binaries are in PATH
.IP \(bu 4
Check service status
.IP \(bu 4
Generate pipeline-receipt
.RE
.sp
On failure, full rollback (cleanup, deprovision, uninstall, revert).
.SH EXAMPLES
Deploy a single package:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy kubectl
.fi
.RE
.sp
Deploy with features:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy docker \-\-with rootless
.fi
.RE
.sp
Deploy with features and settings:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy pandoc \-\-with pdf-latex \-\-with completions \-\-with paper=a4
.fi
.RE
.sp
Deploy multiple packages:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy docker \-\-with rootless pandoc \-\-with pdf-latex kubectl
.fi
.RE
.sp
Deploy from manifest:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy @workstation.manifest
.fi
.RE
.sp
Deploy from multiple manifests with additional packages:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy @base.manifest @team.manifest neovim \-\-with lsp
.fi
.RE
.sp
Deploy from stdin:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cat packages.txt | lore deploy
echo "docker \-\-with rootless" | lore deploy
.fi
.RE
.sp
Dry run to see what would happen:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore \-\-dry\-run deploy docker \-\-with rootless
.fi
.RE
.SH "PIPELINE RECEIPT"
On success, \fBlore deploy\fR generates a pipeline-receipt:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
# ~/.local/state/lore/receipts/2026-01-11T143200.receipt
generated: "2026-01-11T14:32:00Z"
platform:
  os: darwin
  arch: arm64
  distro: macos

packages:
  - name: docker
    version: "24.0.7"
    features: [rootless]
    settings: {}
    installed_via: brew
    phases_completed: [prepare, install, provision, verify]
.fi
.RE
.sp
Receipts can be used with \fBlore-reconcile\fR(1) to detect drift
or with \fBlore-upgrade\fR(1) to upgrade deployed packages.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBlore\fR(1),
\fBlore-upgrade\fR(1),
\fBlore-decommission\fR(1),
\fBlore-reconcile\fR(1),
\fBlore-bundle\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble <david@thenobles.us>
