'\" t
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Noble Factor. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH LORE-MANIFEST 1 "2026-01-11" "Lore 0.1" "Lore Manual"
.SH NAME
lore-manifest \- Create and manage package lifecycle manifests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fBlore manifest create\fR <name> [\-\-from <dir>] [\-\-template <name>]
\fBlore manifest update\fR <name> [\-\-add\-feature <name>] [\-\-add\-platform <os>]
\fBlore manifest validate\fR <name>
\fBlore manifest show\fR <name>
\fBlore manifest test\fR <name> [\-\-with <feature>]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage package lifecycle manifests for the lore registry.
This is the primary workflow for package authoring:
capturing tribal knowledge, creating new packages, and maintaining existing ones.
.sp
A package lifecycle manifest consists of:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
\fBlifecycle.yaml\fR \(em Package metadata and phase definitions
.IP \(bu 4
\fBprepare.star\fR \(em Pre-flight checks (optional)
.IP \(bu 4
\fBinstall.star\fR \(em Installation logic
.IP \(bu 4
\fBprovision.star\fR \(em Post-install configuration (optional)
.IP \(bu 4
\fBverify.star\fR \(em Validation (optional)
.RE
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "lore manifest create"
Create a new package lifecycle manifest.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore manifest create <name> [options]
.fi
.RE
.sp
Options:
.TP
\fB\-\-from\fR=<dir>
Import from existing installation scripts.
Lore analyzes the scripts and generates Starlark phases.
Supports bash, zsh, and PowerShell scripts.
.TP
\fB\-\-template\fR=<name>
Start from a template: \fBminimal\fR, \fBfull\fR, \fBhomebrew\fR, \fBapt\fR.
Default: \fBminimal\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-platform\fR=<os>
Target platform(s): \fBdarwin\fR, \fBlinux\fR, \fBwindows\fR.
Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-\-ai\fR
Enable AI-assisted authoring.
Lore starts a conversational session where AI fetches vendor documentation,
asks clarifying questions, and generates the manifest.
See \fBlore-manifest-ai\fR(7) for details.
.TP
\fB\-\-from\-url\fR=<url>
Provide a documentation URL for AI to analyze (requires \fB\-\-ai\fR).
Can be specified multiple times to include vendor docs, internal wikis, etc.
.TP
\fB\-\-resume\fR
Resume a previous AI authoring session (requires \fB\-\-ai\fR).
.sp
Creates \fBstaging/<name>/\fR directory with scaffold files.
.SS "lore manifest update"
Modify an existing package lifecycle manifest.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore manifest update <name> [options]
.fi
.RE
.sp
Options:
.TP
\fB\-\-from\fR=<dir>
Re-import from updated scripts.
Merges changes with existing manifest.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-feature\fR=<name>
Add a new feature scaffold.
Creates conditional blocks in phase scripts.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-platform\fR=<os>
Add platform support.
Adds platform conditionals to phase scripts.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-phase\fR=<name>
Add a new phase script.
.SS "lore manifest validate"
Check manifest correctness.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore manifest validate <name> [\-\-json]
.fi
.RE
.sp
Validation checks:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
\fBSchema\fR \(em lifecycle.yaml conforms to schema
.IP \(bu 4
\fBPhases\fR \(em Referenced .star files exist
.IP \(bu 4
\fBSyntax\fR \(em Starlark files parse without errors
.IP \(bu 4
\fBContract\fR \(em Each phase has \fBmain(lifecycle, state, features, settings)\fR
.IP \(bu 4
\fBFeatures\fR \(em Features in lifecycle.yaml match phase conditionals
.IP \(bu 4
\fBPlatforms\fR \(em Platform conditionals cover declared platforms
.RE
.sp
Options:
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR
Output validation results in JSON format.
.sp
Exits 0 if valid, non-zero with errors otherwise.
.SS "lore manifest show"
Display manifest summary.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore manifest show <name>
.fi
.RE
.sp
Output includes:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
Package: pandoc
Version: latest
Platforms: darwin, linux
Features: pdf-latex, pdf-weasyprint
Phases: prepare, install, provision, verify
Dependencies: (via child pipelines)
  - basictex (when pdf-latex)
.fi
.RE
.SS "lore manifest test"
Dry-run manifest against current system.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore manifest test <name> [options]
.fi
.RE
.sp
Options:
.TP
\fB\-\-with\fR=<feature>
Enable feature for test.
Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\fR=<key>=<value>
Set a setting value.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR=<format>
Output format: \fByaml\fR (default), \fBjson\fR, \fBtree\fR.
.sp
Shows deployment plan without executing.
Equivalent to \fBlore deploy \-\-dry\-run\fR but operates on local manifest
before registry submission.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create manifest from existing scripts:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
# You have ad-hoc install scripts
ls ~/scripts/install-pandoc/
# \[->] install.sh, install-pdf.sh, verify.sh

# Create manifest by importing
lore manifest create pandoc \-\-from ~/scripts/install-pandoc/

# Review what was generated
lore manifest show pandoc
.fi
.RE
.sp
Create manifest from scratch:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
# Create scaffold
lore manifest create mypackage \-\-template full

# Edit the files
$EDITOR registry/mypackage/lifecycle.yaml
$EDITOR registry/mypackage/install.star

# Validate as you work
lore manifest validate mypackage
.fi
.RE
.sp
Add a feature to existing manifest:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore manifest update pandoc \-\-add-feature pdf-weasyprint

# Edit the generated conditional
$EDITOR registry/pandoc/install.star
.fi
.RE
.sp
Test before submitting:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
# Validate
lore manifest validate pandoc

# Dry-run with features
lore manifest test pandoc \-\-with pdf-latex

# If satisfied, deploy for real
lore deploy pandoc \-\-with pdf-latex
.fi
.RE
.sp
AI-assisted authoring:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
# Start AI session with documentation URL
lore manifest create postgresql \-\-ai \\
    \-\-from\-url https://www.postgresql.org/download/

# AI conversation:
# AI: I'll create a PostgreSQL manifest. From the docs...
# > [answer questions]
# AI: Generated staging/postgresql/

# Review and validate
lore manifest show postgresql
lore manifest validate postgresql
lore manifest test postgresql
.fi
.RE
.SH "PACKAGE AUTHORING WORKFLOW"
The typical workflow for contributing a package:
.sp
.RS 4
.IP "1." 4
Create manifest from existing scripts or scratch:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore manifest create mypackage \-\-from ~/scripts/
.fi
.RE
.IP "2." 4
Review and edit generated files:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
$EDITOR registry/mypackage/lifecycle.yaml
$EDITOR registry/mypackage/install.star
.fi
.RE
.IP "3." 4
Validate and test iteratively:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore manifest validate mypackage
lore manifest test mypackage
.fi
.RE
.IP "4." 4
Deploy locally to verify:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore deploy mypackage
.fi
.RE
.IP "5." 4
Submit to registry:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
lore publish mypackage
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "MANIFEST STRUCTURE"
A package lifecycle manifest directory:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
registry/pandoc/
\[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] lifecycle.yaml       # metadata + phase definitions
\[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] prepare.star         # pre-flight checks
\[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] install.star         # installation logic
\[u251C]\[u2500]\[u2500] provision.star       # post-install config
\[u2514]\[u2500]\[u2500] verify.star          # validation
.fi
.RE
.sp
Example lifecycle.yaml:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
name: pandoc
description: Universal document converter
version: latest
platforms: [darwin, linux, windows]
features:
  pdf-latex:
    description: LaTeX-based PDF output
    default: false
  pdf-weasyprint:
    description: CSS-based PDF output
    default: false
phases:
  prepare: prepare.star
  install: install.star
  provision: provision.star
  verify: verify.star
.fi
.RE
.SH "STARLARK PHASE CONTRACT"
Each phase script must define a \fBmain\fR function:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
def main(lifecycle, state, features, settings):
    """
    Args:
        lifecycle: Package metadata from lifecycle.yaml (dict)
        state:     Output from previous phase (dict)
        features:  Enabled features, e.g. ["pdf-latex"] (list)
        settings:  User settings, e.g. {"paper": "letter"} (dict)

    Returns:
        dict: State passed to next phase

    Exits:
        error(msg)   - Fails phase, triggers rollback
        success(msg) - Exits phase successfully
        return dict  - Fallthrough success
    """
    note("Installing package...")

    result = package.install("pandoc")
    if not result.ok:
        error("Failed to install: " + result.error)

    return {"installed": True}
.fi
.RE
.sp
Available host functions: \fBplatform.*\fR, \fBpackage.*\fR, \fBfs.*\fR,
\fBhttp.*\fR, \fBarchive.*\fR, \fBservice.*\fR, \fBlore.*\fR, \fBshell.*\fR.
.sp
See the lore-builtins documentation for full API reference.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBlore\fR(1),
\fBlore-deploy\fR(1),
\fBlore-bundle\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
David Noble <david@thenobles.us>
